It is important to understand what
are the different bodies of government,
how decisions are made in a company
and also how it affects the size
of the company, because very
small companies are not structured
equally as a startup or a listed
company, for example.
First, I would like to
have a general view.
We have shareholders, the body
is called in Spain General Assembly,
but in other places it is called
Assembly, Joint Members, etc.
Below the shareholders, who
are the owners of the
company, we have the main
management body, which can
be managers or it can be
a board of directors,
who appoint a CEO and below
the CEO in large companies
we have a board of
directors.
We go one by one.
Let's start with the shareholders.
The shareholders are the
owners of the company, they are
the ones who have the true absolute
control of the company.
It can condition absolutely everything
that happens below, what happens is
that shareholders do not make all
the decisions and that is why we
have that structure that we have
seen with different government
bodies.
The body that groups shareholders
is the General Shareholders' Board
in Spain, the General Assembly,
the Board of Shareholders, etc.
Each of them is called a form.
You have to keep in mind that it
is the supreme body, which could
actually make the most important decisions.
It is established in a legal manner
that there are a series of decisions
that are taken in the General Assembly,
naming the councillors, changing
the statutes, approving the annual
accounts, etc.
These decisions are reserved
for the General Meeting of Shareholders.
As I said, one of the tasks
is to appoint the councillors,
so we continue to go down.
Now let's talk about the
main management or management
body.
What is?
In small companies, imagine that
there is only one owner and that
it is the single manager or sometimes
there are several solidary managers,
but what happens is that when you
reach a certain size what
you have is a board of management.
When is it worth having
a management board regarding
being managers?
This is solidary, solidarity, and so on.
Well, let's think that it is a
more complex stock structure
in which there are several
interest groups.
Imagine that we are a family business
in which there are, I know,
six nuclei or six families.
Well, because there can be
conflicts of interest, each has
its own different interests, etc.
What it does then is, what it does
is that it creates an organ that
is the board of directors.
Or we think, for example, that it
is a startup in which a venture
capital enters and the venture
capital wants to have a certain,
wants to have participation in
decision-making, so a board
of management is created
in which the venture capital
participates.
How many times does the council meet?
Well, because this depends
on, depending on, you can meet
every three months or with the
periodicity that is convenient
or reasonable depending on the
moment you are, the decisions
you have to make, etc.
What decisions are taken in the Council?
Strategic decisions are made.
And this is a concept that depends on
each company, but imagine, because
to define the strategic plan, to make
the decision to enter another country
or not, or to define the policy
of dividends, or if we want
to hire a managing director,
to set the goals for the coming
year.
Well, these are functions that
make sense that it is important to
understand who forms the board of directors.
Well, as I said before, the
General Board, shareholders
appoint the councillors, so,
usually, shareholders
want to be represented
in the board.
And I return to the example,
six families, a family business,
well, because the six family
nuclei would like to have
participation in the council
and we will put that each names
a counselor.
That is, what you have to understand
is that in the end the board
is the management body, so shareholders
will want to be present
in some way or another.
If a fund enters, it will put a
counselor in the board of
directors, appointed by the fund.
The counselors may be
shareholders, but they do
not have to be shareholders.
In Spain, the concept is
Sunday counselors, who are shareholders
of the company, but there are
independent counselors.
Independent advisors have functions,
for example, as defense of
the interests of the entire shareholder
or the entire company itself,
because they are not conditioned,
because they are independent,
as we say.
The reality is that independent counselors
are often incorporated into
the advice because they bring you
things, they bring you value.
We will think that they bring
you knowledge, that you file
as a counselor to an external who
has a like a consultant you
have there permanently.
Or sometimes what is done is to file
counselors who have a lot of
networking, which will allow you
to grow, access contacts that you
could not do.
Sometimes the counselors charge and
sometimes they don't.
This will be decided by the General Meeting of Shareholders.
In listed companies, for example,
in very large companies, they
have independent advisors
who earn a very successful
track record, who participate
in one or several boards
of management.
One of the advisors is the delegate
counselor.
This is a key figure.
The CEO is responsible
for the daily management of
the company.
That is, in the board the most
strategic decisions are made, the
strategic plan, for example, and
the management is delegated
to the CEO.
Hence comes the name.
Sometimes you'll hear the CEO,
sometimes you'll be put
on a CEO post, etc.
The board of directors
is the council in which the
responsibility is delegated.
In family, what is usually
done is that the delegate
counselor is out.
I return to the example.
6 family nuclei and it is almost
better to put a delegate counselor that
is someone who, in addition to being
very good, can contribute a lot,
that comes from the sector, that
avoids conflicts of interest.
Because you put a third party who
will make the decisions always
thinking about the good of the company
itself and will not be conditioned
by the interests that each of
the relatives can have.
For example, imagine you're going to file your
son or nephew or something like that.
Finally, we have the management board.
This is true of all large companies.
What the CEO does is to create
a management committee in which
the company's managers participate.
Imagine that you can be formed
by the marketing, operations,
financial, etc.
director.
Depending on whether the company
is larger or smaller, the board
of directors will be larger
or smaller.
It is quite logical.